- [Instructor] In our previous video,
we have already seen the overview
of everything that we need to do
in order to build our generic class box.
We will split this demo into two parts
for the sake of simplicity.
In the first part,
we'll code everything on the box class,
and we'll also code our type arguments,
which is Book and Fruit.
We'll test this out.
In the subsequent videos, we will add methods,
and then test everything together as a whole unit.
Now, I have steps mentioned on the slide
in order to get started for building the generic class box.
So let's execute those steps one by one.
The first step is to create a class box
and define a type parameter T for it.
Let's head back to the IDE.
And on this package, let's create a class called box.
And this time, it is going to have a type parameter.
So you have to enclose that type parameter
in a pair of angle brackets like that, done.
The second step is to declare a list
of T items instance variable.
So as we said earlier,
this box can contain multiple items of the same type.
So we need to incorporate that
by means of an instance variable declaration.
So let's go ahead and say private,
all your instance variables
should always be private in Java.
So private, list.
This will be list of T.
And let's call this, items.
We'll do one more thing.
We will create a constructor for this box class
and inside this constructor,
we'll access the items property using the this operator
and instantiate this to an empty array list.
Because when we declare the instance variable
on line number seven,
this is going to be having the default value of null.
So I'm going to instantiate that
to an empty array list on line number 10.
And if you see,
we have the diamond operator in action.
Next, let's go ahead and also make a getter method
in order to access the items property outside the box class.
So I can just go ahead and say right click, Generate,
choose the Getter, select the field and say OK.
That's all that we need to do in the box class as of now.
Let's go to the next step.
We have to create classes Book and Fruit
in order to test the box generate type.
So let's go ahead and create those POJOs,
plain old Java objects.
So let's right click on this package,
create a Java class and name it, Book.
Let's quickly add properties to the Book class.
So I'll say private string name,
private string author,
and we'll also take the weight of the Book as a property.
So that'll be a double, like that.
Now there are a few things that I want to do
for the Book class.
One is I want to create a constructor,
so you can say right click, Generate, a Constructor,
select all the three fields,
because we want all the three fields to have values
during instantiation, click OK,
and your constructor is ready.
Next, we want the getter methods
to access all the three properties.
So again, right click, Generate, Getter,
select all the three fields,
we want methods for each one of them, say OK.
So now you have getName, getAuthor, and getWeight.
The last step that we'll do here
is we'll generate the toString method for this POJO.
So right click, Generate, say toString,
and select all the three fields and click on OK.
So whenever you're trying to print the Book object,
you will be able to see the values
of the name, author, and weight properties,
instead of some random string representation
that Java gives you by default.
So there we go. We have the Book class ready.
Let's also create the Fruit class.
So I'll right click again on the package,
create another Java class and name this as Fruit.
Let's define properties here as well.
Private string, that'll be the name of the Fruit.
Yes, that's right.
Next is private string,
let's call this field as country of origin,
the country where this fruit originated.
Next will be private string,
let's also have the color of the fruit as a property,
and then we'll have the weight of the fruit.
So that'll be a double type, like that.
And we'll do the same ritual for the Fruit class
as we did for the Book.
So let's go ahead.
Right click, Generate, a Constructor,
select all the four fields, click OK.
So your constructor is ready.
Next, we'll define the getter methods.
Right click again on line 16, Generate, Getter,
select all the four fields,
we want methods for each one of them, say OK.
There we go.
You have getName, getCountryOfOrigin,
getColor, and getWeight.
Lastly, we need the toString method,
again, to print the Fruit object in any case.
So let's go ahead.
Right click, Generate, select toString,
select all four fields and then click OK.
So there we go.
We have the Book and the Fruit types ready.
We'll also do one more thing.
In our Box class, we have the constructor,
we have the getter method.
Here as well, we will generate the toString method.
So let's right click, Generate, say toString,
select the items property and say OK.
So there we go. We are all set.
The last step will be to create a test class
in order to invoke the box generic type
for the classes that we define just now,
the Book and the Fruit.
So we'll create two different boxes.
One is box of Books, the other box of Fruits.
So let's go to the IDE and create a test class.
Let's call this test box generics.
Let's write the main method.
And now let's go ahead and create a box of Books first.
So let's say box.
And this time we are going to pass
the type argument of Book.
This will be Book box.
The variable name generally gets generated by the IDE.
So you really don't have to strain much
in order to decide to name your variables.
Let's instantiate this.
And again, we have the diamond operator in action.
So you need not declare the type argument Book again
on the right-hand side of the assignment operator.
So what we did on line number five
is we invoked the box generic type
and we did this for the type argument Book.
So now you can think of something like this
that this Book is going to replace
that T type parameter that we have on the Box class.
So if you take a look at the Box class and go right up,
so everywhere that you see the T type parameter,
Book is going to replace it.
That's what you can think that this is doing.
Similarly, let's also create a box of Fruits.
So it's the same thing.
This time, the type argument will be different.
Let's call this Fruit box, new box.
That's all.
And now, let's do one more thing.
On line number six, let's print the Book box.
On line number nine, let's print the Fruit box.
Right. And let's go ahead and run this program now.
And let's observe what the console output is. Right.
So if you see, so right now we have just created two boxes.
We have invoked the box generic type
for the Book and the Fruit.
We have not added any items to either of the boxes.
We will do that when we start adding methods
to the generic class.
So that's all.
This is the generic class box that you wrote
and we have everything set for the class level.